WIP: Add 10.6 release notes + simplify deps (#8)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2024-03-06-mondoo-10.6-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-10.6-is-out/
title: Mondoo 10.6 is out!
author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

## 🥳 Mondoo 10.6 is out! This release includes a new EDR policy, additional MQL capabilities, and more!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### Filter policies on assets

https://github.com/mondoohq/console/pull/4012

### Data type conversion MQL helpers

> New MQL helpers allow you to quickly convert data to the right format for you custom checks and data queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New MQL helpers allow you to quickly convert data to the right format for your custom checks and data queries.
```

```coffee
> int(1.23)
1

> bool(1)
true

> float(12)
12

> string(1.89)
"1.89"

> regex("w.r.d") == "world 🌎"
/w.r.d/
```

> ### Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Endpoint detection and response (EDR) policy
```

> Ensure critical employee endpoints have Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) software installed and running with our new Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) Policy. This policy checks to see if SentinelOne or CrowdStrike are installed on macOS, Linux, and Windows systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure critical employee endpoints have endpoint detection and response (EDR) software installed and running with our new Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) policy. This policy checks to see if SentinelOne or CrowdStrike are installed on macOS, Linux, and Windows systems.
```

### Open source Mondoo documentation

> Do typos in documentation keep you up at night like they do for me? With new open source documentation you can fix that problem and avoid the sleepless nights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do typos in documentation keep you up at night like they do for me? We open sourced our documentation so you can fix that problem and end the sleepless nights.
```

> Do typos in documentation keep you up at night like they do for me? We open sourced our documentation so you can fix that problem and end the sleepless nights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do typos in documentation keep you up at night like they do for me? We open sourced our documentation so you can fix that problem and get some sleep.
```

Check out our new public repo at [github.com/mondoohq/docs](https://github.com/mondoohq/docs) for instructions on how to contribute fixes and improvements.

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### Resource improvements

#### aws.cloudtrail.trails

> - Add support for advanced selectors in the `eventSelectors` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add support for advanced selectors in the `eventSelectors` field.
```

> - Add support for advanced selectors in the `eventSelectors` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add support for advanced selectors in the `eventSelectors` field.
```

#### aws.config

> - New `deliveryChannels` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add new `deliveryChannels` field.
```

#### aws.config.deliverychannel

> - A new resource with fields representing an individual AWS Config delivery channel configured within an account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New resource with fields representing an individual AWS Config delivery channel configured within an account
```

#### aws.iam.role

> - New `assumeRolePolicyDocument` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add new `assumeRolePolicyDocument` field.
```

#### package

> - Add new `originVersion` field on Debian Linux based assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New `originVersion` field on Debian Linux-based assets
```

> - Include version data in the `origin` field for source packages on Debian Linux based assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Include version data in the `origin` field for source packages on Debian Linux-based assets.
```

- https://github.com/mondoohq/cnspec-enterprise-policies/pull/742
- https://github.com/mondoohq/cnspec-enterprise-policies/pull/719
- https://github.com/mondoohq/cnspec-enterprise-policies/pull/711
- https://github.com/mondoohq/cnspec-enterprise-policies/pull/715

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

- Improve reliability of fetching CVE data for assets.
- Only show unresolved CVEs in the asset CVE list.
- Fix package CVE false positives for some Debian packages.
- Fix CVEs not showing after the first asset scan.
- Fix failures scanning a GitHub organization if the supplied token cannot access all repositories.
- Only show the options to add new integrations when the user has the appropriate permissions for the space.
- Change documentation links in the console to go directly to Mondoo Platform documentation.
- Improve how space owners are listed in the Organization dashboard's CVE list.
- Fix policy recommendation during the Kubernetes integration setup.
- Show EPSS scores with a single decimal point in all locations.
- Don't fail scanning if the location of an S3 bucket cannot be determined.
- Return more than 100 Microsoft 365 users in queries.

> - Improve output of the `Ensure macOS is up to date` check in the macOS Security policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve output of the "Ensure macOS is up to date" check in the macOS Security policy.
```

- Distinguish between domain controllers and member servers in Windows Security policy checks.
- Improve empty states for software, CVE, and advisory asset page tabs.

> - Improve rendering of columns in the asset page's advisories tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve rendering of columns in the asset page's Advisories tab.
```

- Enforce a max session time of 1 day in the console for added security.
- Don't include the legacy Platform Vulnerability Policy in asset policy counts.
- Improve wrapping of long asset names on narrow screens.

> - Don't include `unknown` integrations in the organization dashboard integrations list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't include "unknown" integrations in the organization dashboard integrations list.
```
